docs/source/build.rst, before:

How to build Otsopack
*********************

The official releases of Otsopack can be found `here <https://github.com/gomezgoiri/otsopack/downloads>`_.
In this page, we explain how to generate the necessary jars from the code on the repository.


Java SE version
===============

Otsopack uses `maven <http://maven.apache.org/>`_ .
It is divided in several subprojects (otsoAuthentication, otsoCommons, etc.).
Each subproject has its own *pom.xml*.
Besides, the **root directory** has another **pom.xml** to generate all the modules in the correct order.

For those not familiarized with *Maven*, consider using:

 * *mvn build*: to compile all the subprojects
 * *mvn clean*: to clean the files and directories generated by a previous build in all the subprojects
 * *mvn package*: to generate jars for all the subprojects

   * add *-Dmaven.test.skip=true* to skips the tests
   * add *-am -pl <module-name>* to generate just one module and its dependencies (e.g. *-am -pl otsoCommons*)

 * *mvn install*: to install the jars in your local maven repository 
   * add *-Dmaven.test.skip=true* to skips the tests


After the jar generation (i.e. *mvn package*), you may want to check the following directories:
 * *otsoSE/target* to find Otsopack's **Java SE version**
 * *otsoSE/target/lib* to find all its (direct or transitive) dependencies


Android version
===============

The **Android release** is generated using the `ant buildfile <http://ant.apache.org>`_ located in `otsoDroid/otsoDroid/build.xml <https://github.com/gomezgoiri/otsopack/blob/master/otsoDroid/otsoDroid/build.xml>`_.

*OtsoDroid* depends on *otsoCommons* and its dependencies.
The dependencies of *otsoCommons* are copied to *otsoDroid/otsoDroid/libs/* whenever *otsoCommons* is built.
*otsoCommons* itself is copied to *libs* folder during the *ant* run.
Therefore, prior to the *otsoDroid* build, we need to build *otsoCommons* as explained in the previous section:

 #. Go to the root of the project.
 #. Execute: *mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip=true -am -pl otsoCommons*

After building *otsoCommons*, we can simply go to *otsoDroid/otsoDroid* and run any of the targets defined in the *ant buildfile*:
To generate a *jar* from the source run:

 *  *ant clean*:  to clean the files and directories generated by a previous build
 *  *ant release*: to generate a *jar* with *otsoDroid*


After the jar generation, you may want to check the following directories:
 * *otsoDroid/otsoDroid/bin* to find Otsopack's **Android version**
 * *otsoDroid/otsoDroid/libs* to find all its (direct or transitive) dependencies

Commit message:

Warning about local.properties creation before the first build.

docs/source/build.rst, after:

How to build Otsopack
*********************

The official releases of Otsopack can be found `here <https://github.com/gomezgoiri/otsopack/downloads>`_.
In this page, we explain how to generate the necessary jars from the code on the repository.


Java SE version
===============

Otsopack uses `maven <http://maven.apache.org/>`_ .
It is divided in several subprojects (otsoAuthentication, otsoCommons, etc.).
Each subproject has its own *pom.xml*.
Besides, the **root directory** has another **pom.xml** to generate all the modules in the correct order.

For those not familiarized with *Maven*, consider using:

 * *mvn build*: to compile all the subprojects
 * *mvn clean*: to clean the files and directories generated by a previous build in all the subprojects
 * *mvn package*: to generate jars for all the subprojects

   * add *-Dmaven.test.skip=true* to skips the tests
   * add *-am -pl <module-name>* to generate just one module and its dependencies (e.g. *-am -pl otsoCommons*)

 * *mvn install*: to install the jars in your local maven repository 
   * add *-Dmaven.test.skip=true* to skips the tests


After the jar generation (i.e. *mvn package*), you may want to check the following directories:
 * *otsoSE/target* to find Otsopack's **Java SE version**
 * *otsoSE/target/lib* to find all its (direct or transitive) dependencies


Android version
===============

The **Android release** is generated using the `ant buildfile <http://ant.apache.org>`_ located in `otsoDroid/otsoDroid/build.xml <https://github.com/gomezgoiri/otsopack/blob/master/otsoDroid/otsoDroid/build.xml>`_.

*OtsoDroid* depends on *otsoCommons* and its dependencies.
The dependencies of *otsoCommons* are copied to *otsoDroid/otsoDroid/libs/* whenever *otsoCommons* is built.
*otsoCommons* itself is copied to *libs* folder during the *ant* run.
Therefore, prior to the *otsoDroid* build, we need to build *otsoCommons* as explained in the previous section:

 #. Go to the root of the project.
 #. Execute: *mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip=true -am -pl otsoCommons*

After building *otsoCommons*, we can simply go to *otsoDroid/otsoDroid* and run any of the targets defined in the *ant buildfile*.
If it is the first time you use that *buildfile*, copy *local.properties.dist* to *local.properties* and edit it to specify the path of your Android SDK.

To generate a *jar* from the source run:

 *  *ant clean*:  to clean the files and directories generated by a previous build
 *  *ant release*: to generate a *jar* with *otsoDroid*


After the jar generation, you may want to check the following directories:
 * *otsoDroid/otsoDroid/bin* to find Otsopack's **Android version**
 * *otsoDroid/otsoDroid/libs* to find all its (direct or transitive) dependencies
